1. Purpose and intended audience

The EMP Museum (Experience Music Project) has a website designed for members,
non-members, the press, and potential employees. The main purpose is to convey
information about exhibits and events at the museum.

2. Overall Design

The color scheme is primarily black and white, with accents of neon pink/red and
neon yellow. The colors go well together and are appropriate. A fluid layout is
used and no horizontal scaling is required for screens at or above 1024x768. The
website has interesting content "above the fold". For example, the banner shows
that a Star Wars exhibit is now open, and a menu bar has links to anything you'd
like to know about the museum, such as other exhibits, ticking information,
events, and future plans. When loaded in FireFox, Chrome, and Safari, the
website looks identical. There is good contrast and the text is very legible.
The website uses visual cues to divide nuggets of information which also aids
legibility. Content is centered and divided into 3 columns or 1 columns and
feels balanced.

3. Navigation

The site uses a very shallow structure. The amount of content and links on the
main page can be overwhelming. The menu bar does not actually load another page.
Instead it navigates to lower positions on the main page. Most of the audience
will be folks interested in pop culture and technology who will not be overwhelmed by
this layout. The menu bar is the main navigation aid and it hugs the top for
site. It is useful for finding whatever the site has to offer. This flat design
and the menu bar makes everything accessible within 3 clicks. I used several
scenarios to verify this, such as:

1) Find out how much tickets cost. (1 click: tickets and membership)
2) See what events are happing this month. (1 click: calendar)
3) Find information about an event. (2 clicks: calendar, then event)
4) Start ordering presale tickets to Star Wars exhibit. (3 clicks: At the
Museum, then click Star Wars Costume, thenClick resale tickets.)
5) Apply for an employment opportunity (3 clicks: Hover over About EMP, Click jobs,
Then click business development manager, then click Apply for this position)

After exploring over a dozen navigational links I found one that yielded an
unexpected result: Under Calendar -> SFFSFF: THE DARK SIDE -> View Film Details:
it did NOT link to any film details as I would have expected. All other links I tried
are working.

4. Graphics and Multimedia Design

All the graphics are done tastefully and are clearly related to the content they
represent. For example, the top banner contains three advertisements for things
going on at the museum, including the Star Wars costume exhibit. Another graphical
element found throughout the site are neon colored buttons. The accented colors
are a nice visual cue that they are clickable.

Most of the image resources are optimized for the web, but there are a few
exceptions that could be improved: A picture of the front of the EMP is encoded
in PNG which isn't optimal for photos. A jpeg would have been a better format.
There is also a graphic showing street directions which is written in jpeg. PNG
would have been a better format since that format is better for graphic
design. There are also a few large resolution images that will cause the page to
load on computers with low bandwidth internet connections. These images are
nearly 500KB!

The site seems terrible for accessibility. None of the images use ALT tags or
descriptions! After disabling images, the entire page maintains its formatting
which is good. Most images are not needed because there are small headers below
them that give general description of the content that follows. However,
there is no way to tell what was on the top banners. Some underlying text or
descriptions under the banner images would be helpful.

5. Summary

The layout and design of the site is very nice and aesthetically pleasing. I
found it easy to navigate, and the graphical cues are done well. I really like
the high resolution banners, but they could be annoying to users with low
bandwidth. One glaring omission is accessibility. None of the images provide a
description of their content. Overall I like the design, and find it visual
pleasing and very functional.